


CSPT1 TEAMS
===========

Overview
--------

On Monday, March 19, 2018, LambdaSchool is implementing a new program
for the Computer Science Part Time cohort called **CSPT1 TEAMS**.  The
cohort will be divided into three teams, each led by a Project Manager.
The members of the team will be reassigned to a different team with
different members every four weeks (two major sprint iterations).

The following is a tentative overview of the new program; details are
still being worked, and it is expected that the details will change as
the program gets underway.  We value your feedback and suggestions to
refine the program into a quality learning experience.  A web page is
being developed that will have the current implementation of this
program available for consultation and feedback.  Until that page is
launched, this README will provide current information as it becomes
known.

A Slack channel will be created for discussion of this topic; each of
you will be a member, along with your Project Managers, the Instructor,
and Administration.  All questions and answers will take place in that
channel and every discussion will be available for all to take part in.

### Pair Programming

Inside teams, team members will pair program the current sprint, but
will be expected to collaborate with other team members and the Project
Manager to discuss issues and resolve blockers.  At the conclusion of
the sprint, the team members will come together for a team standup and
work together to produce one sprint that is an advanced merge of the
pairs.  The team members are expected to discuss the pros and cons of
their own production and advocate for their position or explain why
their production would not be the best choice.  The Project Manager will
facilitate the discussion, and will be the final arbiter as to what gets
included in the final production.

### One-on-One Time

During the sprint, one member will be paired with their Project Manager
and will spend that evening discussing the sprint, coding challenges,
prior sprints, and sprint challenges.  This time will be their
one-on-one with a Project Manager and will be a time to get into any
questions or problems that exist, and to get some experience presenting
a coding challenge in front of someone, a vital skill to develop that is
considerably different than working on a coding challenge by oneself.
The member teamed with the Project Manage will change every evening.
Since there will be approximately eighteen members, each member will be
assigned to pair with a Project Manager about once every two weeks.

### Saturdays

#### Sprint Challenge

Every other Saturday will be a full sprint challenge.   This wil remain
an individual project for each student.  Each student must present their
solution at the conclusion of the challenge as a pull request.

#### Presentations

1. Brown Bag

The alternating Saturday will consist of a Brown Bag presentation by
both students and Project Managers.  This should last about 30 minutes,
give or take.

2. Sprint Challenge Solution

Next, there will be a solution given to the sprint challenge of the past
week.

3. Team Presentations

Finally, the students will have a team standup, during which time they
will prepare a presentation for the entire class of their sprint work of
the past week.  Each team will present in front of the entire class the
final merged product, explain it, their own difficulties and learning
experiences, etc.  Each student will participate for a few minutes, and
students are encouraged to create slides, code snippets, screen shots,
etc., for their presentation.  Each team will present their work, and so
all students will get to see the vast possibilities that exist for
producing code, and will get experience speaking in front of a group.
Each student will be expected to present one little snippet of the
whole, and so the time spent in front of the group will be only a couple
of minutes.  This is a time for learning how to work in teams as much as
it is a time for learning code.

Each team will have about an hour to have their standup and produce
their presentation.  Each team will have about 20 minutes to present.
Each team member will therefore have about 3 minutes to present their
part.  We are hoping that this will be a fun time, and not a stressful
time.  Three minutes goes by very quickly.
